# LandRanger

LandRanger is an ICP Smart Contract (canister) based platform that allows users to convert land certificates into NFT (Non-Fungible Token) form using the ICRC-7 From ICP standard. The platform aims to increase transparency and security to avoid land and building mafia in ownership by utilizing blockchain technology and smart contracts.

This application's logic is written in [Motoko](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/main/getting-started/motoko-introduction), a programming language designed specifically for developing canisters on ICP.

## Project structure

The /src folder contains Motoko Backend and Frontend . Frontend folder contains web assets for the application's user interface. The user interface was written using the React framework.

To learn more before you start working with `landranger`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd landranger/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

# Running the project locally
## How to run this project locally (Recomended From Developer)
If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --clean --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

After that you can go to the frontend folder to build the frontend view 

```bash
# Go to the folder
cd src/landranger_frontend

# Runnung in the terminal
npm install

# Running local frontend
npm start
```

Then redeploy the canister

```bash
# Redeploy The Canister
dfx deploy
```

Why is redeployment necessary? Previous deployments are useful for building frontend and backend declarations that will be useful for connecting between the two.

### Usefull Note : If authentication with ICP is not working try changing the contents of the identitiyProvider in app.jsx. 
### (From network === 'ic' to network === 'local')

Once the job completes, your application will be ready to use
If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
